have you ever seen a high functioning
team where one person is like hey
everybody do you like me like it doesn't
work what happens in a high functioning
team or a high functioning family is
that people are listening to themselves
and they're listening to each other and
when you're seeking out approval you
stopped listening my name is Joe Hudson
I was a former venture capitalist and
now I'm a coach to some of the world's
most notable CEOs in Silicon Valley in
this video we're going to talk about how
to stop chasing other people's approval
let's do number one seeing how your need
for approval is pushing people away so
the easiest way to understand how
looking for people's approval pushes
them away is think about the person who
wants your approval who's desperate for
your approval and notice what happens
inside of you you're like uh get away or
you're okay with it for a while but then
you're like ah this is annoying I don't
want to be the person who gives you
approval and when you're seeking out
approval You' stopped
listening you're not actually with the
person you're not present with the
person you want to extract something
from them it's like asking them for
money except for you're asking them for
approval and at some point they're like
God damn it buy your own lunch get your
own approval and so it pushes them away
how can you be friends with or trust
somebody who's just going to do what you
want because that gives them approval
instead of somebody who's actually going
to show up as them say what they mean
mean what they say that's the people
that you can trust just see how when you
look for approval it's pushing people
away feel the hurt of that pushing away
just doing it in and of itself bringing
that awareness to the table is going to
slow down your need for approval so the
second one is letting gratitude all the
way in so when somebody is looking for
approval and they get a compliment
here's something that often happens oh
I'm not pretty you're the pretty one oh
I you know oh that's not really true I'm
not that pretty they do something like
that which is basically telling the
person who gave you a compliment that
they're a liar and the other thing
you're doing is not receiving the
compliment and if you don't receive the
compliment guess what it feels like to
the person giving you the compliment it
feels like why would I keep giving
you compliments if you don't actually
receive them if you don't enjoy them it
seems like a horrible thing to do so you
stop getting the compliments the other
thing about receiving compliments is if
you actually receive them somatically
meaning in your body if you feel them
instead of dismissing them they're going
to feel a little weird they're going to
feel strange you're going to try to let
them get all the way through you it's
going to tickle some part parts of you
it's going to make you feel
uncomfortable in other parts you might
find yourself getting rigid and you just
like relax and let the feeling move all
the way through you and when it does
when it moves all the way through you
what it's actually doing it is taking
the part of you that feels limited and
it's challenging it it's making the part
of you that says no I'm not enough and
it's like wow there's evidence to the
contrary and you have to deal with that
and that creates an emotion so if you
feel that emotion it can process all the
way through and it really literally
destroys this egoic part of you that
says hey I'm limited I'm not good enough
and you actually can't believe it
anymore if you let that feeling all the
way through you it really shows you who
you are instead of what you think you
are and that creates a lot of freedom so
for me in that Journey when I realized
that I was calling people Liars I felt
like such an that I was like oh
my gosh I I'm going to start allowing
these compliments and just saying thank
you and the thing that I did was I was
like oh thank thank you which was like
I'm still thinking you're a liar but I'm
going to be polite about it right that's
what was happening for me and then I was
like wait a second what if I actually
let this in and when I let it in it just
like hit me over and over again
sometimes it made me cry sometimes it
made me laugh sometimes it tickled me
but I let it move all the way through my
body and the next thing I knew I was
like oh this is the thing that I've
actually wanted that I haven't allowed
myself to feel mostly because I was
scared that it would go away or I was
scared it wasn't true or scared it
wouldn't come back and instead I just
allowed myself to feel it and the more I
allowed myself to feel it the less I
needed it it was like I was a person who
was eating but then I was always like
not digesting the food and now I was
actually digesting the food and it's
satisfied my Hunger for the very first
time so the third way to let go of
chasing approval is to actually feel the
emotion that's underneath thinking that
somebody is better than you or worse
than you this is why putting somebody
above us protects us from our emotions
because if we feel our emotions then all
we can do is really listen to
ourselves so when you say somebody's
better than me then you don't have to
listen to your emotional experience and
so then you're really concerned about
how they think about you but if you can
feel your emotional experience and you
don't need to protect yourself from that
and then you care about what you think
what's your truth it allows you to be in
yourself instead of over in them trying
to figure out what will make them happy
and it's really hard to be in yourself
if there's an emotion you don't want to
feel so it goes like this oh there's an
emotion I don't want to feel so I can't
be in myself so I'm going to go be in
them and now I care what they think so
all you need to do is every time you
notice that you're seeking out approval
from somebody else feel the emotion that
you're not allowing yourself to feel
right there right in the spot even if
it's just for two 3 4 seconds allow
yourself to feel it and slowly but
surely you'll start paying attention to
your truth rather than other people's
truth if you really take a minute and
you say hey I'm just going to chase my
own approval it's a whole different game
it's a whole different game to say oh
hey do I approve of that if that's your
central question rather than do they
approve of that do I approve of that
does that make me feel good is this how
I want to be that is a life where you
feel very empowered
very grounded and very able to have the
life that you
want so if you like the video please hit
subscribe or if you want us to make a
video about something just let us know
in the comments and of course you can
always watch the next video